Maintenance Development log.

Tips on 3D Skeleton.

To hide Skeleton3d Gizmo (Yellow wireframe).
Click on Toolbar button "View". 
Gizmos -> Skeleton3D
This will hide the annoying skeleton yellow wireframe around the mesh model for better preview.

Alternatively all View Gizmos can be turned off by clicking button on the top left button called "Perspective"
This is also useful for FPS monitoring. 
"View Frame Time" can be toggled to reveal FPS.
"View Information" can be toggled to reveal count of primitives and objects.
And "Half resolution" mode for more FPS.


Looping 3D animations.
To loop an animation, you have to first drag .glb into the scene.
Then right click on it and click Drop-down button "Make local"
Then AnimationPlayer should appear among nodes at the bottom of Scene explorer.
Once you click it. You will see bottom animation tab open up.
To the very top right corner there is a button "Animation Looping"
If you click it it will throw a message.

Nearby the bottom of the animation player there is a button with Warning sign. 
By clicking it you might see the reason on why animation looping is not yet available for this animation.
All you have to do now is double click .glb file in the FileSystem.
Now on the left you should locate AnimationPlayer.
Select the animation you would want to loop and set the Loop Mode to Linear.
Most importantly set the Save to File and tick the Keep Custom Track. 
Confirm by clicking "Reimport" button.
Now you will have to again drag the glb into the scene and you will finally be able to click the animation loop button.


Detecting incorrect geometry origin.
Visually when you import you might see something is off, either the yellow surrounding box is below waist or something in similar scenario. 
Most likely that's because the author of the .glb file forgot to set a correct geometry origin. But before that we have to once more be sure that it is the case.

This can be done by double clicking the .glb file and selecting mesh of Skeleton3D, on the left side of the UI under "Gnerate" tick the Physic "ON"
If the Physics body is below or in different location than the Skeleton 3D mesh:
that means you have to open the blender and fix the geometry origin.



Restoring unpacked .glb by "make local."
I haven't seen a way to restore it back. 
For me the current method is deleting the localized node and reintroducing the .glb into the scene again.





Hiding the scene's top-right UI 3d Directions helper.
This can be done through Editor settings.
"Show viewport Rotation Gizmo"

Recognizing the various colors in the scene.
You can check the Editor settings of 3D Gizmos. 
There are all the colors and names according to the subject it belongs.




Already resolved by 1.0.2: There is still weird orange rectangle around 3d male mesh


2025-02-12 1.0.2 The rotation and location were fixed.
In Godot, After double clicking the .glb and enabling/toggling Generate->Physics 
I've noticed that the physics wireframe was in different direction than the mesh itself.
I decided to fix this and import 3D Male Body Mesh into Blender. 
Then I pressed N and to view Transform helper UI show up. 
I looked at the "Rotation:" values and they surely were weird and not solid values, 
instead they were seemingly randomly fractional.
Now I pressed CTRL + A and selected "rotation". This seemingly worked to restore "rotation" to solid values.
Then I repeated the same for "location" since I've also noticed it not being a solid value like you would expect.
After all this done, I exported again as .glb file. It's not seemingly fixed




------My old thoughts-Deprecrated----------

Remember to adjust import setting for this .glb by double clicking 3d Male Base Mesh .glb and then once it opens up for the root "Scene" toggle in the Nodes section: "Import as Skeleton".

2025-02-11 Fixed origin geometry - Tested on Godot 4.3

If you can improve it, please create an issue with details on GitHub Repository. https://github.com/BoQsc/Godot-Male-Base-Mesh/

Correct way of using with Skeleton3d node: 
1. Create a new 3d Scene
2. Drag .glb into Filesystem.
3. Drag .gllb into scene.
4. Create new Skeleton3d subnode for male_base_mesh Node.
5. Double click the male_base_mesh.glb in the Filesystem.
6. Toggle  "Import as Skeleton"
7. The bones in the Skeleton3d subnode  should now appear.

Weird bug detected in import system of Godot 4.3: 
All good for a fresh project, all bones loaded after I toggle "import as Skeleton"
It's so weird, that after I unclick "import as Skeleton" and then toggle again, the skeleton parts no longer appear ever. no matter how many times I click and unclick.

It seems like untoggling "import as Skeleton", deleting the scene, creating, creating a new scene, dragging the glb into scene then adding subnode of Skeleton3d and retoggling "import as Skeleton", the bones finally appear again.

It seems like deleting male_base_mesh from the scene, untoggling "import as Skeleton" and then dragging to create new male_base_mesh  and a new subnode Skeleton3d and then toggling "import as Skeleton"  again also helps to resolve.

Somehow now it resolves by simply removing Skeleton3d subnode , untoggling "import as Skeleton" and then creating Skeleton3d subnode  and retoggling "import as Skeleton". All bones now appear.

Alright it seems like we can ignore all the previous issues.  
I've learned enough from [Godot 4.0 Third Person Controller Tutorial ( 2023 ) by Lukky](https://youtu.be/EP5AYllgHy8?si=T9O6lg1yap_3sGD-&t=1132)

After dragging to scene you have to right click the 3d Node of "3d Male Base Mesh" and click button "Make local" this will expand to contained skeleton inside gltf file.

